---
id: 6704541c-9db3-46ac-bf41-31dd55d3cc4d
---
# Agents & Actors
Agent based models are used to simulate the behavior of complex systems. 

- Agents: Autonomous entities (people, cars, cells) with internal states and behaviors.
- Environment: The space or context where agents exist, interact, and are influenced.
- Rules: Simple instructions governing agent actions and decisions (e.g., move if close to a predator).
- Interactions: How agents affect each other and their environment.
- Emergence: Complex patterns (like traffic jams, flocking birds, market trends) arising from simple, local interactions. 

## SEQUENCES OF PROBLEMS
The ORDER OF PROBLEMS IS IMPORTANT. When faced with multiple problems, the order in which we address them can have a significant impact on the outcome. 

## Pattern Languages
Enclopedia of Solved Problems so that you don't have to solve the same problems over and over again.  

## BUMPSHAPES & BUMPSHAPING
Faced with BUMPS there's a process of BUMPSHAPING to transform them into progress. You may need to break down the BUMPS into smaller chunks to make them more manageable. You may need to merge or separate BUMPS.  You may need to change the BUMPSHAPES to make them more effective.  

## SYstems of Problems
THis is reality. HUMPS consist of BUMPS. BUMPS CONSIS OF LUMP. These are ways of conceptually slicing the range of problems according to their dimensions.

It's contextually dependent. And recursive pattern of thinking, organising, and acting. 

Example: BUILDING a house.
- HUMP = BUILDING A HOUSE
- BUMPS = Architecture, Foundations, Electrical, Plumbing, Heating, Cooling, Windows, Doors, Roof, Walls, Floors, etc. Beyond the capability of a single human's intuition to transform. Either due to the complexity of the problem, or the scale of the problem. Too "Big" 
- LUMPS = Problems within each of these sub-domains of BUMPS. Divided logically by the dimensions of the problem. Limited complexiity. Within the capability of a single human's intuition to transform.

## IF YOU WANT TO GET PAID, FIND PROBLEMS





