---
id: f639d64e-0ef0-4d65-87d7-277147bf0293
title: "The Core Thesis"
description: ""
order: 1.1
status: draft
---

Humans are one of many species. Many species have become extinct. Each one could be thought of as an experiment by our living environment (ecosystem). Maybe the species that contribute to the overall wellbeing of the ecosystem and maintain strong relationships survives and thrives. No one knows the rules that determine success. Regardless, a common factor is that the biosphere ecosystem growth continues regardless of the success of an individual species. If we view the world through this lens, then our economic system should acknowledge and ideally ‘support’ this process. 


Social Unrest is a natural process of transformaiton if the progress does not create more problems.

BUMPIVORES need feeding. Always feed the bumpivores. The main goal of Problem Transforming Economies is to feed the bumpivores. 

Human are evolving. Traditionally we see pictures of human evolution by the changing physical traits of our ancestors. This is a false narrative. Human evolution is a process of cultural evolution.? 

But it's hard to see our cogniaive evolution Does it even follow the same rules as physical evolution e.g. based on DNA, genetics, chromosomes, epigenetics, etc.?

What if our future is defined by our ability to transform our cognitive environment? Our congnitive evolution. 

What's beyond digital? Is Digital Dead (binary states of 1 & 0's)
Will Quantum kill Digital ?
