---
id: 7e5913b2-1777-4dc4-a788-9a283fe8fdca
title: "Establishing Common Ground"
description: ""
order: 1.3
status: draft
---

# Establishing Our Common Ground



-In the introduction have unique perspectives,Here is my personal perspectives: 
- Earth is akin to our common lifeboat. We all have to share it and look after it. And we don’t have any other place to go.
- It ability to support life as we know it is being threatened. If we had a global dashboard for well-being its warning lights would be flashing.
- As a parent the future well-being of our children looks to be at risk.
- Our behaviours can be controlled through our senses. What we think and do can be ‘nudged’ by others if they know how. These ‘tricks’ are regularly used in to influence our behaviours.
- We like to form into groups. And regularly participate in many groups at the same time e.g. family, community, nationality, business. Group dynamics can influence individual behaviour. 
- Individuals can follow the crowd to focus on whatever the group shines a light on. 
- Many individuals and groups behaviour are being dominated by an abstract concept call ‘the economy’. 
- Economics has become our de facto Social Operating System. Its language, beliefs, values, processes, and goals has invaded every aspect of society. 
- Economics is not improving the world around me. Long standing problems are not being addressed. New hazardous problems are being created. It seems to be taking us in a harmful direction. 
- Economic thinking looks increasingly outdated. It does not seem to be able to respond to the changing conditions. 

## A Short Global History of Human Societies

“Society is a web of social relationships” -R.M.Maclver


### Types:
- Hunting-Gathering societies
- Horticultural societies
- Agrarian societies
- Industrial societies
- Post-industrial societies

### Hunting-Gathering society
- Earliest from of human society
- Smallest size(family bands
- Most time spend looking for food 
- Very nomadic
- Very low developed division of labor
- Longest lasting society(99% of all societal time)
-59 minutes and 51 seconds on the societal time clock


### Horticultural society
- Villages( less than a hundred inhabitants to several hundred)
- Family clans and others
- Domestication of plants and animals
- Semi-nomadic
- Food production is a major social effort
- Division of labor evolves especially by gender
- Religious and military leader roles
- 3.6 seconds on the societal time clock

### Agrarian society
- Developed large-scale agriculture
- Large societies with large cities
- Multiethnic society
- Large division of labor
- Farming technology roles (government, religion, business, etc.)
- Peasants are the largest class (50 % or more of population)
- 5.2 seconds on the societal time clock

### Industrial society
- Most developed form of human society
- Nation-states
- Mega populations (metropolis)
- Advanced technology in many fields
- Less than 10% of population is involved in food production
- Very detailed division of labor (gender roles remain)
- Mass destruction of biodiversity
- Less than one second old on the societal time clock

### What should a post-industrial society look like?
- Problem Transforming
- Able to survive and thrive in a world with limited resources
- Knows the rules of the game and can adapt to them
- Able to expand it's horizons and operating environment
- Curious, open-minded, and willing to learn
- Hopeful
- Problem based
