# No Turning Back

## Jeff Bezos - One Way Doors!



## Why me?
This mission is proving to be particularly challenging. A ‘moonshot’. 

It started in the summer of 2014. My health had stabilized after a major cancer operation in 2010. I need a fresh start. So I parted company with my employer. The idea was to spend the summer having quality time with my two daughters (aged 4 and 6 at the time) then find some work.

During this time I started to wonder what work I could do that would be meaningful. I started to consider doing something to improve parenting. I'd seen some parenting disasters, and I didn't want to create another one!

I started to 'look into it'. But every path led towards even larger problems. Out of curiosity I started to look for tools & techniques to help me. But the search left me wanting. I couldn't find anything that helped me deal with the type and breath of problems I was encountering.  I continued searching. Expecting to find 'the thing'. After all problems are everywhere...and impact everything.

After more extensive searching I began to suspect I that it didn’t exist. Or was not yet in the public domain. Four years later I'm still searching!


## Red Pill Blue Pill Moment

I was hooked. What was going on! The world around me just didn’t seem right anymore. I started to want to know more. To dive deeper and understand the nature of things. I started to seek more information and insights from a increasingly diverse bodies of knowledge. Philosophy, language, maths, education, systems thinking, business, economics, lean, agile, biology, sustainability, sociology, psychology, and many many others. I looked into game theory, and evolutionary game theory. Trust, motivation, engineering, innovation, platform thinking, ecosystems, software engineering….I could do on, but I think you get the jest of it.

The deep I dug the great the hole was becoming. Where would it stop I wondered. I was mentally exhausted. My decision making was being affected. I was flapping about like a untied sail in a storm. 

And more I learnt the more dissatisfied I became with the world around me. I had, without realising it, crossed a point of no return. I could no longer go back, and return to my previous point of blissful ignorance and illusion. 

## Plato’s Cave
Strange things can happen when you choose a new path. It can take you to new places. You become excited. You want to talk, to tell about the new things you have discovered. And you want others to feel equally as excited as you.
And then it happens. You start to realise that your enthusiasm is not being as warmly received as you would like. People start to ‘avoid’ your converstations. What is going on?
At some point I discovered the parable of ‘Plato’s Cave’ and I realized this is not unusual. It is s normal pattern that has occurred throughout history. 
I’m thankful to Plato’s cave - it has been a tremendous help in understanding my position relative to the world around me.

Preparing for Change
